POST /products/_doc/100
{
  "name" : "coffee maker 3",
  "price" : 67,
  "quantity" : 10
}


PUT /products/_doc/100
{
  "name" : "coffee maker 3",
  "price" : 67,
  "quantity" : 10
}

//To update only one value

POST /products/_update/100
{
  "doc" : {
    "quantity" : 13
  }
}



GET /products/_doc/100

HEAD /products/_doc/10

DELETE /products/_doc/100




POST _bulk
{"index":{"_index":"products","_id":100}}
{"name":"coffee maker 3","price":67,"quantity":10}
{"index":{"_index":"products","_id":200}}
{"name":"coffee maker 4","price":67,"quantity":10}
{"update":{"_index":"products","_id":100}}
{"doc":{"price":89}}



GET /products/_doc/100

DELETE /products




Index the document Only if it does not already exist


When you execute the PUT command for the fresh document, Then the document will be created. Such a case result attribute from the response will incite as “created”. When you execute the PUT command for the second time for the same document, it will not create the new document again if the document already exists in the cluster. Instead, it will update the document. You can confirm that by the result from the response. The result will indicate as “updated”. But when you execute the PUT command for the fresh document, Then the document will be created. If it's already available, then the document will be updated.



If you don't want to create the document, if it already exists, you have the option to restrict this behavior. By choosing op_type, you can limit the creation of a document if it already exists in the cluster. Valid values: _index, _create (The default value is _index)

You can provide op_type in two ways

1. You can specify op_type in the request itself as a resource

In place of _doc, we can specify _create as op_type to restrict document creation if it already exists. If its index PUT request will update the document if it already exists. So Using _create guarantees that the document is only indexed if it does not already exist.

Example:

PUT blogposts/_create/1

{

“title” : ”Introduction ”,

“content” : ”Elasticsearch is a distributed, open source search and analytics engine for all types of data, …”,

“published_date” : ”2020-01-02”,

“tags”: [“elasticsearch”, “distributed”, “storage” ]

}



(OR)



2. You can set op_type parameter to the request

Set the op_type parameter to create to index a document into the index if no document with that ID exists.

Example:

PUT blogposts/_doc/1?op_type=create

{

“title” : ”Introduction ”,

“content” : ”Elasticsearch is a distributed, open source search and analytics engine for all types of data, …”,

“published_date” : ”2020-01-02”,

“tags”: [“elasticsearch”, “distributed”, “storage” ]

}