# Index vs Index vs Index

In a lot of places, I referred to the word index in a different context. In elastic search, based on the different contexts, it uses the word index in different meanings. A little clarification is necessary

# Index as a noun

An index is like a database in a relational database; It's the containers for mapping types. It's the place we store and index-related data. An index consists of one or more Documents, and a Document consists of one or more Fields. The plural of an index is indices or indexes. You can roughly think of an index as a database.

MySQL => Databases => Tables => Rows/Columns

OpenSearch => Indices => Types => Documents with attributes

# Index as a verb

The process of inserting a document into elasticsearch is called indexing. Indexing a document into elasticsearch is similar to inserting the row in a database table. The only difference is, if the document already exists in the cluster, the indexing process will replace the old document.

# Inverted Index

Elasticsearch and Lucene use a structure called an inverted index, which is designed to allow fast full-text searches. An inverted index is similar to the index that appears in the back-of-the-book. 

An index in a textbook is a mapping between words or phrases in the book, for example, “default mappings,” and the page or pages where you can find the word or phrase. Elastic search also uses the same concept of book indexes. That’s called an inverted index.

It creates the mappings between terms — inverted indexes created from the document created in Elasticsearch. An inverted index consists of a list of all the unique words that appear in any document, and for each word, a list of the documents in which it appears.